# CS-340-Project-Two-Dashboard
Dashboard &amp; Readme for CS-340 Client/Server Development


How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?

Writing maintainable, readable, and adaptable code can be challenging. Understanding these three principles can improve overall code and quality. Some essential components of readable code are following D.R.Y. measures (Don't Repeat Yourself)! Reusing code improves readability and reduces redundancy. Reusing simple elements of an application through iterations helps with readability, maintainability, and adaptability. One guideline I always follow when writing code is to write it so someone unfamiliar with the system can follow along and understand. Using comments, removing redundancy, and repeating code, all work together to improve code quality. On the other hand, these three components can work against each other and make programs confusing and unorganized. 
For our CRUD.py file keeping the methods and classes short and simple helps make this program easy to follow and understand what is going on. It is better to have multiple more concise modules, classes, and methods working together than one file with lengthy code that is difficult to maintain and adapt. For example, this program could have been scripted in one Python file with the CRUD methods and the dashboard. Separating the CRUD module makes it easier to adapt, read, and maintain. The CRUD module we developed is a great starter code for use when working with MongoDB. Create, Read, Update, and Delete are essential but primary functions when interacting with data from MongoDB. Creating databases, updating and deleting documents, reading data, etc., are all possible from the CRUD methods. Some of the code may need to be adjusted slightly depending on the specifics, but understanding how to incorporate Python to work with MongoDB's Pymongo driver is an integral part of Computer Science.  

How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet different client requests?

The first step is identifying the problem at hand. Identifying the problem is the first step in understanding it, i.e., what is happening, who it affects, and how to solve it.   Identifying and understanding are interconnected and examined before designing a solution approach. There are various methods and techniques for SDLC, but they all include some form of research gathering and designing before writing code. Understanding the requirements of a program is the most critical aspect of creating quality software that operates and functions as needed. For the Grazioso Salvare dashboard, I worked backward. Instead of reading the rubric and requirements for each segment or module of the project, I examined the final expectation and got an idea of where the project was heading. This way, I understood a complete lifecycle development, that one segment at a time, without knowing what was further than what I was developing. The Dashboard project was more in-depth and took more planning than other projects in other courses. Although I did plan, I was behind schedule and was off track for a portion of this lifecycle. With prior experience with Dashboards or MongoDB, my expectations aligned with my progress. However, I completed the project on time and was happy with my final deliverable.



What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?

Computer scientists develop, design, and analyze software and hardware features of business, science, industry, and other fields to improve productivity and help solve problems.  Computer scientists solve issues that are applied in real-world scenarios.  Software applications and systems developed and designed by software engineers help support businesses and industries and are the backbone and foundation of many companies.  Applications, websites, software systems, and databases are just a few examples of how computer scientists' work improves the functions and operations of many different corporations in various fields.  In the Grazioso Salvare project, the database we created and CRUD modules improve functionality and allow users to quickly and easily search for search and rescue dogs that meet their criteria.  It would not be realistic or efficient to manually search through the documents to find candidates.  With over 10,000 records in their file, Cmnd-F or Ctr-F to search would take weeks of exploring and manually documenting the results.  This Dashboard streamlines the process and allows the company to find candidates efficiently and easily in seconds. 
